good evening how's everybody doing
[Music]
I'm going to call to order the town of
Andover town meeting the special town
meeting public hearing for Thursday
March 13
2025 we're starting
at
7:17 the electors and citizens qualified
to vote in town meetings in the town of
Andover are hereby notified that the
special Town meetings and a public
caring for the town of and will be held
at the end of our elementary school Big
Five School Road Andover Connecticut on
Thursday March 13 at 7 p.m for the
following purpose to discuss an act on
the proposed solar array project for
Andover Elementary School
rout and then to adjourn so the first
order of business is to choose a
moderator for said meeting does anyone
have any
nominations Carol Bart does I have a
second for that one second Julia hav uh
are there any other nominations no okay
turn the volume up a
little I think that's just
me I
apologize uh wall meeting is not
yours thank
you okay second item is to discuss the
act upon the proposed solar array
project for the endover elementary
school group who going to speak to
this hi for those of you who don't know
me um my name is Kate Greenhouse I am
the board chair for the Board of
Education um I have been for kind of a
short time um this solar project on the
school roof has been something that
we've been um in Cycles to apply for a
grant for it's been in the works for two
and a half years now I believe um Steve
fuss who is no longer on the board was
the person who actually started um the
interest in trying to get solar on our
roof and trying to save us money in
electricity cost um so it's been a long
time coming um we did apply for the
grant I believe two cycles before we got
approved um and since we got it um we've
been you know in talks with green guys
this entire time um and there have been
obviously a lot of modifications and
questions along the way um but we're
really excited um to bring this forward
um and to try to save our town and our
school um some money in in the cost
savings that we'll have associated with
the solar um and energy and then I'd
like to induce introduce um Ryan he's
here from Green SK tonight um he came up
here from Essex he has been at several
Board of Education meetings um so if you
guys want to review any of those they're
all posted on our website um for the
Board of Ed um as YouTube videos but
he's here tonight to just kind of give a
quick overview of the project um and
then we can answer any questions that
people would
have thank you Caitlyn I appreciate it
um so I have
only 15 hard copies
of uh so should I give them
to they've all seen him they've all SE
okay all right so why don't I um I'll
introduce uh who green Skies is and uh
give you a
quick quick uh explanation of how this
uh solar project works and how the
Contracting took place um so so GRE SP
is based out of North aen Connecticut uh
we install solar on top of the RO of uh
municipalities throughout the state
we're on about um 35% of Municipal uh uh
buildings in the state so whether that's
police stations uh Town Halls uh school
buildings uh what we do is we install
the solar at our cost um we then sell
the power back to the building and
whoever is paying the utility bill will
receive uh usually it's around a 50%
discount on their uh on their energy
bill um so that's essentially the
business model is green guys owns it
there's no out of pocket cost to the
town and you sell the power at a cheaper
rate than what you're currently buying
it for um the way we're able to do that
is through um an incentive program R new
state communicare and it's a competitive
auction that we have to apply for um it
took us uh as kayn said two years to to
finally secure that grant that was in
the spring of 2024 when we secured it um
since then uh after securing the grant
we were able to begin engineering the
project uh evaluating the utility room
the structural Integrity of the roof to
ensure that it can handle uh the the
added weight solar on top of it um
fortunately Clos yep
fortunately um after all of our
engineering work uh was completed which
was completed recently um we were able
to determine that the structural
Integrity using a third party structural
engineer confirm that the additional
wave of solar could be installed on top
of this group most groups in New England
are built uh tougher than down south
because they have to account for the
snow Lo already so um there's usually a
significant amount of additional weight
that could be added to the um we also
had to look at the electrical room to
ensure that the interconnection of the
additional power going to the utility
meter here would not create any issues
uh we were able to uh solve for that uh
situation and the electrical engineer uh
signed off on our inter connection and
ever also confirmed that it was an
acceptable
interconnection um so right now we uh
are proposing I believe it's it's a
close to
180 kilowatt project it set to offset uh
close to around UH 60 to 70% of of the
annual electricity demand at this
building um the current design and I
don't know if you have current design uh
but it's essentially taking up all of
the newer roof space here uh this roof I
believe was installed around
2016 um I don't have the exact date uh
but the warranty on your roof expires in
2046 um and the manufacturer is through
Carlile uh Carlile has done uh millions
of schools uh throughout the country we
work with them often um to ensure that
after the solar is installed your
warranty will remain in place so the
solar will not negate the warranty
greens Skies will not build the project
unless the warranty remains um and that
uh is on green Skies to make sure that
we go through the punch list with the
manufacturer and ensure that um
everything is built properly um after
the solar is installed there will be a
post uh inspection with the
manufacturer's rep from the warranty um
and they'll sign off or they'll ask for
us to make Corrections and afterwards
they will sign off on the warranty um we
know how important it is for schools and
townships to um install a roof and how
expensive that cost is and we understand
that the warranty is essential to remain
in place um and we you know again will
not would not build the project without
um without that place
um so I could go through quickly just
Milestones of what we've accomplished so
far and then happy to answer questions
um so we uh green skies in order to
submit an application to State uh to
apply for that incentive we have to sign
a power purchase agreement with um the
Board of Education because they're the
ones who pay for the uh for the power of
the school so we signed a power purchase
agreement with the Board of Education
and submitted for a uh incentive 2 years
later we were finally granted that um
that incentive which is a very difficult
thing to accomplish on its own um that
gave us the uh ability to start spending
money uh to engineer this project and
get it to the point where it is today um
so at this point we're essentially in a
position where we would uh go for
permits uh the project is is very close
to being uh fully engineered we're at
about 50% TRS at this point um we
ideally would like to try to pull
permits um by the end of this spring and
would like to start construction this
summer when there's less going on at the
building uh construction would take uh
maybe at maximum uh 30 to 60 days it
would be a relatively quick turn around
um and we like to try to do our installs
when the students are in the
building um so I'm happy to answer any
questions if you
like so um how much weight are we
putting on our
schoola from
Square yep so it's usually about lound
per square foot of additional
capacity but we again we that's all
through our third party engineer who
stamps the drawings and confirms that
that additional weight could be applied
when accounting for snow speak a little
louder please can't
hear so our our warranty stays in effect
absolutely um both the considerations
for snow and s
p and it's a no cost in town did I right
it's no cost in the town that's
correct
than does that cover the inverters too
the inverters are paid for by Green
Skies the the inverters are paid for and
owned by Green Skies um our warranty on
the inverters are 10 years and our
warranty on our panels is our is 20
years um this is a 20-year contract so
greens Skies makes a business decision
as to whether to buy the 20-year
warranty on the inverters or the 10e um
we tend to choose to go with the 10e um
because we we bet that the inverters
will last
longer go
ahead as the structur ones near licens
in the state um item 4 a of the warranty
30-year warranty for the root it says
this this warrant should be null and
void if we penetrate the roof for solar
panels um without first obtaining
written authorization you also mentioned
that engineering drawings are at this
time 50% complete you're at the stage
where you've submitted the exact detail
of each penetration for their sign off
on it and they approved each to Big
devils in the detail each penetration
has specific C it goes through
mechanical flashing that goes around
they have to approve it so the warranty
is not scw
have you gotten to the point where
you've submitted engineering drawings to
proove each penetration approv so we
received the roof warranty recently um
we have not submitted this to the
manufacturer yet our drawings so the
answer is no we have not gotten sign up
from carile yet um but that is essential
to before we can start this project or
even consider uh building
I a couple questions you want to do them
one at a time sure first one is keep
saying you're going to car car that
actually in your contract you going to
get manufactur the road address at all
so if you can do this all the time and
you always have to do it why is not in
your
contract so why is it not in in our
power purchas agreement contract in your
contract for the installation why isn't
it saying there that you're going to
protect
by making sure that they have a
one the the Reon the reason why I wanted
to be in there is because if we if we
build this project and harm your grout
we would be held uh liable for that
without cooperating with carile if
anything it's it's on us um because we
would we would have to essentially redo
your entire room um so we work with car
to protect
you know ourselves but also the town um
and we would make a decision to not
build this project without their sign
off uh if anything to say this is yeah
it's an assurity on on our end uh
because these roofs are very expensive
can you put it in contract
sure all right so that's one two I
didn't not see a wind study though the
roof our Engineers do have to do a wind
study
um so I don't know if it was provided I
don't know if you have the
material uh in hand but because we did
just receive the the warranty we now
know what type of racking uh to install
which does impact the the the W study
well the warranty doesn't tell you no
type of racking and so that's not really
true um the warranty just tells you that
get get permission of car you
guys should have figured out what you're
instead of is this Ty of install is
going to be probably the most
embal it's not be going be extra weight
it it depended on what who the
manufacturer was on this Ro car does
some loud mechanical attachments yeah
they're going to basically be a
mechanical attachment 10 10 GRS wherever
the structure will be this um but some
manufacturers do not allow penetration
some do when we found out that it was
carile a couple I think it was a week
ago
um that allows us to start engineering
what type of racking we could install um
car fortunately does allow it which uh B
of systems are great but that's a
different conversation it it is yeah
they're heavier and they also have the
the the wind issue issue with B so that
everyone in the audience understand is
that when they do a ballast install
they're really just doing a rack and
they're putting a cinder block on it
different different locations to help
keep it from lifting the wind problem is
with ir wind it comes off the back there
where everything is open and because it
needs to be facing that way the back of
the panel is going to be like an
airplane wind facing into the wind it's
going to want to literally lift those
systems and so as the wind turns on and
off it's going to it's going to roll on
that roof and if you've ever had
anything sitting on your carpet or
whatever that little movement is SL can
wear itself right roof structure so Carl
was probably going to ask them to put
some type of mechanical Fasteners in the
system somewhere but they're also going
to requir them to put probably um pads
underneath the rocket so it doesn't wear
through on the corners that sharp corner
where everything comes together get the
issue but in order to do that you corly
need a wing study which again IE and see
um I think the other thing I'm concerned
about is you said 15% save right we got
a hand out here Town um from our town um
uh administrator and said you know uh
something s here that we're paying 26 K
it's going go down to 12 and that me we
save um about half the current cause but
that's not true because so I think your
15% number is probably a little closer
it's probably be closer to 10 and I'm
just give you just over very clear I
have solar on my house and I love it but
I bought mine didn't rent it relas it my
concern in this case is that I think
there's a misunderstanding about how
this works when you explain power to the
to the the
groove we don't pay the delivery fee if
we're producing at that moment so in the
middle of the day when you get a lot of
sun and we're using power right we're
also producing and so we get a net
against what we're using at that moment
but right now dark outside there's no
sun lights are on gym is being used
whatever is going on at school or in
January and February when there's solar
when is there's snow on the panels again
even in the middle of the day you're not
producing so you're going to have times
in the year where you're actually in in
session the SCH in session you're not
getting power production and you're
still paying the delivery fee so it'll
be
11212 or whatever it is right 112 and
then we'll still have the delivery feed
which we all know unfortunately now the
state of Connecticut is about 2 2/ thir
of our bill so you're still going to
have that it's going to be probably
closer to a 10% saing so what is the
school's bill on either monthly or
yearly
basis so the way that we factor in the
production of the system is on an annual
basis using the PB CIS software with
historical weather data uh dated back 20
years in order to finance a project like
this um we have to show the banks uh
accurate weather data um so the
production that you see here is what
we're expecting in its production that
we have to have another third party
Engineers sign off on that the
production is is going to be at least uh
a 90% chance curing year that will'll
hit those production benchmarks um so
what we're showing um in in this
analysis is uh close to 200,000 kilowatt
hours a year um being produced by the
project alone and what's the schools us
that's what I don't have any uh that
offand uh but what I do know is it's
it's nowhere near at 100% of of your
existing uh energy demand in your
original you said 60% what yeah it's
it's I would expect it to be close to
60% uh the panels do degradate every
single year by 50%
c% uh sorry. 5% not 50% yes I mean be
honestly solar to that's actually not
true that's the warrant is what the
warrant said they allow to reduce but
they actually get more efficient as time
goes on yeah my panels have got increase
about 3 or 4% every year I I would appre
yeah so but that's how we in our when
we're showing savings to the town we
show it going down by Happ Point sure
only because it's that's that's what's
guaranteed so that's what you're bearing
your production to production to about
60% of the production but not all of
that even 60% of that production isn't
going to be offsetting the power
delivery feed the other times night when
we're drawing or when there's snow on
the panels in January and February May
December right right in the summer time
we're going to be over producing here
and N me it back so what is your cost
savings actual savings dollar amounts of
the school 16,000 in year one $16,000
approximately yep and then a total
cumulative Savings of close to half a
million dollar over the 20-year
term yep so that's a dollar okay that
seems so I guess my other question would
be
um when you're when you're putting these
projects again who said it's a grant and
what is that Grant actually paying for
so it's not a grant I ipoke on that it's
it's called a enr non-residential Energy
Solution program um what this is a
mandate this is a mandate for the state
of Conneticut that requires that the the
Public Utilities in the state which is
United Illuminating in every Source uh
they have to purchase x amount of their
power through renewable sources so it's
not a grant what you're saying is you
apply to a program that allowed you to
sit this
solar p on a roof you do these with
municipalities because municipalities if
they want it you don't have to go
through the city council president you
were doing this as a commercial project
you have to go to a city council in
Connecticut and they have to decide
whether your project is approved or the
city council is for projects over one
megga size uh this is uh one0 that size
our three guys does go through the side
Council often on larger ground Mount
projects 7 we do um but this would yet
just be a local um we would look to
blackor building ELC cids and um and do
the F Department uh but that that would
not so my last question is now bring
this up because I've been in long enough
my been through a 38 in storm although
we've had great the last four Winters
listen I'm not complaining we've had
great Winters and not a lot of stuff
right but I think most of you remember
back in
2013 I've got video if you don't piling
38 in on Drive
guys there is no accommodation in your
drawings for snow removal if we get a
heavy
snowstorm and most schools would go
there Lally snowbow or some other type
of removal equipment and our school did
when that storm hit and clear off the
roof so that it doesn't collapse so what
happens when you get a crazy snowstorm
like that how how does schools
address so I I don't want to speak out
of line because I don't know what the
what the structural engineer Ed used um
for their SS it's 110 lb that's the
standard in the state of United what
what was that 110 lb right or I guess
I'm saying what this um a one in 100e
storm one in 500e storm I don't know
well this is a one in 14e storm because
we're not why yeah um but there I'm not
an engineer and I can't speak to what
the access load is available at this
building um but what I do know is we
would if Wen even close or remotely
close to not having struction capacity
we would not build this project um so if
a storm like that were to ur and we
thought we were on the edge we would not
build this project if um there was any
sort of Jeopardy in the structural
Integrity of this with um the actual
mechanics of physically um who who's
removing snow and um what green Skies
would likely do on a on a oneof type of
situation is we would evaluate this
storm when it's coming in um look at all
of our current assets within this area
which we have dozens of like Columbia
Horse border schools
Scotland bunch of schools in Willam
Mantic cantbury we have uh a lot of
rooftop solar projects in this area so
when a storm if a storm were to occur we
would handle that on a Case by case
basis um so two other quick questions
one you said you only do 10e warranties
on your inur but I just want to be clear
I'm trying to help you here actually you
are responsible for the system for the
whole 20 years so I don't really care if
there it's 10e warranty or onee warranty
you're buying any new one if it goes
back right we're buying ourselves we
we're not p no okay so there's there's
your there's your your cookie so the
next question is was this
project considered for offsetting any
other town build because we literally
had a communting center in another
building next door and I actually I look
at numbers I'm going to tell you that
your numbers are really low for your
production I'm going to tell you that
because we don't actually get four and a
half hours of production Sun here in the
endover with the clearance that we have
I can tell you I get about 6 and 1/2
hours a day of the sun my system is only
evaluating from 11.4 Kow and I actually
did 27 last year so it's really not
about your numbers will probably a shoot
and the question is why wasn't it taken
into account that other buildings like
why didn't there n time there literally
right there because that would heat up
that would heat up the excess during the
day that you're producing and so then
everybody get advantage of that of that
power purchase agreement when you're not
CH to deliver to and then at night you
know way G on the own so yeah it's uh
the nres program is uh one meter per
project uh we can't uh split up the
projects but we can do behind the meter
rooftop or ground down projects to
offset those other buildings at no cost
of the Town through a power purchase
agreement um this this opportunity came
through the for Education we were
working directly with them on the NRS
application for the meter at this
building uh so we were sort of just
focused on that um with the rooftop and
the meter in the same building it
definitely uh enables us to lower cost
for interconnection if we have to trench
on the ground to get to another meter uh
from this roof it it is very expensive
um so usually it's the cheapest possible
in order to have the lowest pbaa rate we
have to build the project at that
building and offset that meter of that
facility that's usually the the best way
for everyone to save money I'm not told
you was actually cond oh there I didn't
know that that's all institutional
knowledge and that's why there's a
little frustration on this project is
that unfortunate school did the
project getting proud on parts of the
town we would have been able to help
with those types of things
so well there there is excess room space
so um we could build a second
project thank
you what happens to the exess if you L
on the
exess Excess power production yeah you
over produce so because the state of
Connecticut has in De eing um we we're
allowed to overproduce uh for example
the summer months we probably will when
it's probably F here here at this
building um what that does is it credits
your the this the school's Bill uh the F
uh so you'll receive a a essentially Zer
dollar bill in August and July we
produce a significant amount of power in
a lot of States that's not there are no
penalties no as long as we don't produce
more power than this building needs on
an annual bases there are penalties and
as the gentleman was saying we're we're
probably close or as I was saying
probably close around 60% of the annual
offset at this building so we we're not
not going to we're likely not going to
hit those or over produce uh ever the
rule is to try to stay at about 85% of
the buildings load cuz some uh some
years you might have a really sunny year
and you might over cred
so I can answer this I have an electric
bill and we the school usually uses
about 30,000 kilowatt hours per month on
average which is 3 360 kilowatt 360,000
kilowatt hours a year which is way above
what this system is going to produce
what's that what the school to
go it's 28,000 to 30,000 kilow hours
what's what's the cost for um December
was $
4,435 I another question sure have you
act did you actually look at placing the
solar panels on the ground versus on the
roof and are there any advantages to
this range to we actually did look on
the ground at this on this property
there there does seem to be a lot of
recreational use of this land so we we
try to stay away from that if if if
there's a newer roof with a long
warranty it it definitely is the cheaper
way to install there and using
essentially useless real estate that you
can't really um where the kids AR
playing you know soccer outside there's
Woodland out there as well we try not to
you know uh cut down trees if we don't
have to site work is pretty expensive
there um so we also do carport uh
structures as well um but in this case
you know carports are very expensive so
uh it everything sort of just kept going
back to the uh we try to evaluate all
all options when uh when we're looking
at an
opportunity and uh just because you have
a you have a lifespan on this roof till
2046 this solar project will only be on
here till
2045 um it just it just sort of made
sense these are something
I I'm sorry how do you hand that like sa
one
break have someone that had this
chemical you got kids
here hasard as chemicals in the solar
panels yeah so we actually have to
purchase our panels now as of a couple
years ago everything has to become
come be purchased domestically um so
there likely could have been hazardous
material in uh solar panels that were
sourced from other countries um that
we're not aware of we have to buy all of
our material domestically and that has a
lot of regulations on it in terms of
what type of what's in
there to be consider for Expos so the
panel
itself yeah yes but I guess what I'm
saying is we're not going to be there's
no liquid substance that's going to be
leaking you know into the onto the roof
if a panel does break it's we do own it
and we have to remove that panel from
the roof and replace it um it's I I
don't uh because there's not a lot of
trees around this facility we're really
not expecting tree branches to be
falling on it it's not a shoreline town
so uh we don't have to deal with the
seagulls and you know dropping shells
and everything on it so fortunately
we're in a relatively good spot here
from uh uh I guess a low maintenance
location do they require cleaning
periodically and do you handle that yes
so um in Connecticut uh we actually
don't really need to clean as much as
what are some of our projects in
Southern California it's dustier it's
sandier and we do have to wash the
panels in Connecticut we have rain often
enough where um you know in the
springtime we might have pollen that
accumulates on it but the rain usually
washes those panels off so we don't
really we don't often times pay for uh
cleaning them but we do maintain them uh
uh about three times a year we would
look through the permission of the bo of
Ed gain access to the property and um do
corre do preventive maintenance on the
system usually prior to the summer time
to make sure that it's ready for higher
higher producing months and then in the
winter time to get it ready for any uh
you know weather that that may
occur how did you come up with the
buyout
cost so the bio just has to be fair
market value or higher according to um
the the investment tax credit
regulations at the federal government
which we would be taking advantage of
here so in the power purchase agreement
it has to be at least fair market value
or high so we could ask for fair market
value as a change in the contract um
fair market value or or high yeah so we
could ask us change so ask your buyout
schedule is a little crazy to be
honestly $300,000 for a 20-year-old
system could be like kind stupid so
could we ask for changeing the contract
that said that you only pay fair market
value you said fair market
value I'm sure it's something that our
attorneys would look at you if that
Amendment would like to be sent to us we
happy to review
it thank
you um so I'm curious about uh Eric had
written up something that talks about if
there's a leak in the roof
who pays the so I'm concerned about
taxpayers and what the timate cost of
the taxpayer is you get a question yeah
you asked um if there was a leak in the
grot yes what is the ultimate cost to
the taxpayer how does that affect the
taxpayer y So currently if you had a
leak in the room I assume that your the
warranty or the The Local rment Company
who installed this is under warranty to
to fix that I think at least that's the
way any roof that's under warranty
should should be handled um when solar
is installed your warranty will remain
in place so they are is still
responsible for um for the leak even if
the leak if the leak is because of us
we're responsible for the leak
absolutely so the taxpayers won't have
to pay for the removal of the panel and
then right if if it's through green
skues uh negligence that that that would
be our
responsibility what happens if there's a
dis read size and we do the solar as to
what caus the for instance we have a big
issue here so if there's a Bast issue
that go through if you don't no that's
not mine and they say it is then what
yeah so prior to installation we have to
come onto the site with the
manufacturer um they're going to walk
with us and look at every single detail
on this road if there are current issues
for heat installation they need to fix
those um after the installation they
come back out they look at every single
one of our uh racking posts make sure
that they're uh they're perfect and then
they sign off on it when they sign off
on our installation and maintain its
warranty
it's back to business as usual with your
current Uh current situation so can
answer my question there's a
disagreement right if there's a
disagreement green Skies we'll we'll
discuss it with the
manufacturer so okay
so that's not okay so I don't know how
how connected Eric was to this but
Eric's statement was that in the case of
a leak
the contractor would charge the school
the cost to remove the solar system the
energy the energy the system would have
produced while the system was removed
and the cost to reinstall the system so
that's not ever going to
happen so so long as the issue wasn't
caused by the town I guess um you know
if the town did something up there that
created the leak um then the
manufacturer would probably say that's
you know the town's fault but I guess if
someone's working on the HB units up
there and that were even her you'd sort
of be in the same situation um so it
would have to be something that the town
um the town did so there's there is a
likelihood of a person needing to work
on the roof for something and something
could
happen I guess that's my concern is is
the ultimate tax liability for yes and
and that's what um we we try to make
sure that there's absolutely no
liability for the town we can't control
though of course everything what someone
might be doing on the roof at any given
time the in be replac at some point if
your new generic drawings take that into
account the ones that were originally
posted on the SCH website did not so
there was some handc to just that went
across that roof that would need to be
removed for that roof to be done through
the new plans address that so that
that's not an issue anymore can you um I
was actually going to bring that up
tonight the which which roof is that the
farthest roof that's the tallest one
that was the one roof I was on the roof
project to the school got so that was
the one roof that we didn't address at
the time and we gave it at that time a
15 to 20 year time frame you know so
where 10 years in so basically in the
middle of this project that roof is
going to need to be done some point so
how has that been addressed in you know
with the conduit and some things that
were coming out but in the C that were
going over how was that addressed in
your drawings and your old drawings that
wasn't addressed at all that was a
concern that that was a that was
actually an issue we were discussing as
soon as we Sol the
group that it only covered the uh non
I think it's a loose Stone up there yeah
that's that's on top of the So currently
you're operating under no morrant on
that from what I understand no there's a
there's a it's a validated system so
it's a stone system as you mentioned
there's no warranty there but my point
is we know that Ro is going to need to
be replaced and it it would take the
next 10 years your project is a 20-year
project your panels will still be in the
way and so were your Mechanicals so how
is that addressed in to work around that
roof so it can still be replaced because
according as Liz just brought up if this
roof was done right we're good that roof
is not B your Mechanicals are in the way
the system would have to be disengaged
we'd have to pay for power it's not
producing as your contract notes how
would you address that to make sure that
you don't have that problem yet we
prefer to not build on roofs
that W without a right at least 20 years
panels in your
design are
mechan across
that then that's something that would
need to be adjusted and that's why has
been addressed engineering program
designs that are 50% no no so that needs
to be addressed yep yeah and you know 10
years left is good information to know
uh to understand that there there might
be a new moof at that location in 10
years there's definitely a the B hasn't
been addressed in at least 15 that I
right so it's yeah we no that and I was
hoping that might just been a baled
section that was newer um not even close
right you but that's that's very helpful
information usually that's something
when we go to try to pull a perment um
that's something that's discussed uh
directly with the town to understand
exactly so your s Engineers never looked
at that and said hey by the way we
should probably work around this look at
bance proof and know how old it's
just mod as soon as we saw the warranty
was the first question um because you
know we weren't sure that the date on
that the warranty excluded that location
of the RO uh and then you know
that they actually discussed all that Y
what we've done and not done okay
I got one question sh um if the to
meeting was willing to approve the
project would green Skies having any
problem with uh laying out some of the
contingencies the resident sat there and
identified such as you know adding the
town to the agreement because the
agreement has signed was town of andela
Board of Education that actually have
secondary agreement that sits there and
includes the town of B over on the
project um also sitting there
and writing down in this agenda to the
contract of the preservation of the
30-year warranty on the AES
roof uh identifying the buyout of the
system will be fair market value plus
let's say a
dollar right and then uh I do think the
last Point by Adrian regarding the roof
replacement and Co codifying that or
codifying that so that if that if
there's Mechanicals or or solar panels
on the older roof that the town is not
held to any negative uh monetary point
for having to remove those items to
replace
that when green Skies be okay if
we approved it if those contingencies
and then work Board of Education and
work with green Skies to get the end of
the
contract I absolutely think that all of
these questions were
um valid and um I don't think any of
them would be an issue in the structure
of our power contracts
um I guess the the process of having the
town part of the power purchase
agreement is just is is confusing only
because their for ofed is is buying
power um does the
town want to buy the power too or well
we would probably like to if we could
but we
only okay well I I think that's an
internal Town decision that I you know
don't want to stand in the way of um
true I mean I'm asking I'm asking if we
make a motion that puts these
contingencies in place will green scy be
okay with
it just asking you you will evaluate
those if those are the conditions that
the town meeting puts in place yes
y anybody have any more questions for
something in the warrant does it mention
anything about um any pration or
depreciation of the product where would
be a discounted
coverage in the warranty or in the power
production the warranty yep so the the
warranty uh goes right back to the way
it is R uh the way it is currently rain
um and this is just a product of that
manufacturer having to get used to um
it's probably been 10 years of
significant Solar Development on top of
their roofs where their tenants um or
the you know their customers want solar
so they had to accommodate that I'm not
talking about the roofs I'm talking
about the solar panels oh okay cell
issue is it 100% coverage for the war
tweet for the solar panels yes for 20
years um and we have to use a manufact
solar banel manufacturer that is uh
Bloomberg tier one rad which is me makes
them financeable uh so yes they're
they're 20 year and then burd are are
tell what happens if uh green Skies goes
out of
business if green Skies weren't go to
out of business um our our lender would
then look to find another um manager of
the asset so they would go and take care
of it the lender though would have to
step in the shoes of of green skies and
then they would um have to manage the
asset and then eventually sell it to an
operator who could continue to um to
bage the the so is that written into the
contract the that circumstance and and
all it yeah whats and yeah it's it's if
you have trouble sleeping at night you
can read that it's very boring but it's
important it it's very important yes um
it's it's actually a significant part of
the our contract um where where the
lender can take over uh if if we're in
Bri my question do you have any other
towns where the town as well as the
board of education is a signer on the
PPA that is for a project on
school oh where the for a school town
yeah for school building you have any
other towns where the town as well as
the board of education is a signer on
the PPA
contract I would I would have to think
about that i' never seen
um the town be party to a to a to a to a
school project so I I I don't think so
um but it depends you know it's whatever
the charter I
uh is here that we would have to Green
SK is
okay I I believe you said that the
panels would be
domestic uh manufactured domestically
the paper that we picked up tonight says
that they will be made by Shanghai
Aerospace is that I don't I don't think
that's our solar manufacturer um we we
have to purchase domestic uh content
I don't I I just don't know what what
you're uh looking at
yeah yes that company is a domestic
manufacturing other Chinese part their
domes
manufactur they actually bu
Wisconsin Jeff you want to pick
Mo um wait I I'm not sure if we're ready
cuz I still have questions about that
what's the I mean you might be looking
at Eric stock it's Eric stock it's Eric
stock you got to remember Eric before he
became Town Administrator spent five
years working in the Solar industry so
he was writing a document as reviewing
the information so but he named a
specific company Shanghai Aerospace
automobile and he sat there adj because
Adrian's information is that they're a
domestic manufacturer they they set up
facilities in the United States okay I
you not he that all right thank you any
other
questions
[Music]
okay so the resolution States resolve
that the voters of this town meeting of
the town of andon are subject to Prior
subsequent
execution of a second amendment to solar
power Services agreement by authorized
representatives of each party green Sky
energy the town of Andover and Andover
board of education do hereby uh approve
Implement implementation of the duly
proposed and notice solar array project
for the Handover Elementary the school
roof uh with the following uh School
room such Second Amendment shall include
at a minimum the addition of the town of
hand over to the
agreement the preservation of the
30-year warranty on the AES
rout the buyout of the system will be
based upon fair market value plus
$1 and green Skies will make every uh
effort to avoid the heru area that has
less than a 20year uh life
expectancy someone willing a second that
would you state your name to
the l
i okay you've all heard the motion made
second it when you came in the door you
got a group of ballots this is ballot
number
one either vote yes or no on the
question that's been asked is this a
vote on the
resoltion this is what Jeff this is vote
on the resolution
they have to we have to follow all the
contingencies in the resid okay all
right point of order um you actually
have
another go
ahead C added there um I don't know if
other people are saying this is really
should
andar not
that I don't know the same
way I don't think this is the only
motion raise I would like to raise
motion on this
more you can vote on this motion and
vote the motion down if you don't agree
with the motion that was
presented he does not want the town
included in the document in the
agreement he wants it solely between the
Board of Education and green SP so this
is discussion on the motion he wants
disc discussion on the motion go ahead
discussion on the
motion Scott I would genuinely agree
with you except here's the problem first
the town owns the building that's one
two given the number of questions I had
alone obviously the school did not have
the technical ability to look through
this project ask the right questions I I
appreciate the fact that he had someone
here that can answer some of the
questions but some of the stuff never
should have gotten where it is all those
things should have been addressed by
whoever was representing the school
boards in those conversations the
warranty should have been hded to them
on day one when they showed up on the
project the fact that that other roof
hadn't been done and the condent was
cutting across it an issue the fact that
there's no wind study should have been a
conversation there are too many things
that were left
and I don't fault this Bo they simply
don't have the technical skill that's
the why when te projects are done in
town every other town and including this
one up until our current superintendent
would form a capital committee to do the
project like the school roof was you get
one person from the board of Finance one
person from the board of of of Selectmen
two people from the Board of Education
and then you get committee members that
are from the from the community in this
this case we got Mike Russo we got a
couple other guys that are used to
running projects at the ukom that have
this skill set AB don't even ask these
types of questions that wasn't done in
this case instead the project was run by
a couple people on the board and there
was no no no person in that group that
had technical knowledge so if we're
going to do this at the very least we
need someone involved in the project
that has a technical skill to say hey by
the way we asked all these questions at
the meeting but none of that's still
been addressed so we shouldn't be going
forward
yet somebody needs to be able to say yes
or no and have the technical knowledge
to be able to answer that question
correctly that's my point
resolution thank you I agree
100% anyone else on the motion in
discussion they even said that the towns
don't usually work with the with is
they're going with the school they deal
with the board of egg not with the
tenant and this is a project on the
school it should be run by the board of
EV the town can have some input but I
think when it comes to signing it should
be the board of
ev anything
further just so you guys all know we
don't want this to be contentious as the
Board of Ed we ask for a town meeting
for this because we want everyone to be
informed and granted this has been a
subject on almost all of our agendas for
the past eight or nine months if youve
come to a board ofed meeting if you've
ever listened to them you have heard us
talk about this project so we really
appreciate that people are here tonight
and asking critical important questions
please don't think this is contentious a
power purchase agreement between the
school who's buying the energy right and
the company who's providing it that's
that's what a that's what that agreement
is it's a it's an agreement to buy
energy so I'm I'm a little bit confused
on adding the town to it only because
the town is not buying the energy unless
you guys are going to start paying our
electricity bills that's
my tax the scho no that's not what I'm
saying listen listen listen we're all
one the school is signing on the board
of education signing on the project the
town will also sign on the proct we're
co-signers we're not taking anyone's
Authority away we're not we want to work
together it's all listen so if you don't
like it I I can tell you we can we can
have a legitimate debate about all of
the physical assets the town owns and
who owns it I am telling you this the
school this school is owned by the
town and it is rung by the Board of
Education you don't have to get into a
real debate you're doing a project on a
building that the town owns we're not
telling to know we're not giving you a
problem we just have some items that we
would like address in the
contract that's it if you don't like it
vote no that's all I can tell you the
motion's on the floor I would like to
call the motion right now so second
motion someone ask that
who
seconded to discuss the motion it was
like a
second you want to call the question I
do that's a go all those in favor of
ending debate signify by saying I I
those
oppos debate is over you have your
battle the first battle that you were
given Martin yes or Mark no and they
will come around and collect the
B if no one Minds we're going to move
right into the next part of this meeting
we have to uh we have to go through this
again so
um I'm going to skip that uh we're we're
here to
uh discuss to determine if the town will
approve financing to the Fire Department
Squad vehicle and a public hearing on
the following proposed ordinances to
discuss determine that the town will
adopt uh an ordinance controlling dog
waste on time Recreation Fields plane fs
and school grounds an ordinance to
update replace and nullify the current
tax abatement program for the Handover
volunteer fire department and uh to
start the meeting we need to uh appoint
or choose a moderator do I have
nomination for said
moderator uh anybody else no all right
we're good W here you
go thank you
you were all when you came in the door
handed a piece of paper about the
financing for the fire truck the truck
was approved over two years ago and it's
still in construction but it's due to be
delivered this
summer and there are three options that
were
presented in regards to the financing
have anybody
explain the documents that you guys all
have in front of you related to
financing there were three financing
options there was a 5-year option a
10-year option and a 15-year option just
letting you know that the 10year option
is what we have budgeted and planned to
budget the board of finances approved
those dollars that will cover that
so going to give you back to the
moderator to ask any specific questions
but that's the information that you have
in front of you the 10-year option is
the one that has been budgeted and uh
the one we can
afford
question Andre W uh the board of finance
and the board of Select And to clarify I
think this document repeats that but I
just want to be 100% so this is an easy
goote we've planned for this for a long
time money's in the budget it's already
budgeted so it's not going to change
taxes if we go the 10-year plan the
money is not in the budget the money is
in a fund the fire engine equipment fund
that you for it for 4 something, it pays
for for 125 years or four years right
concept is from the board of Finance to
finance that fund as they have in the
past so they'll continue to fund it and
the what 25 level which will pay off the
truck so it has planed no real changes
to the taxes everything that we've been
working on for years is coming into play
correct if we do the 10 year correct
okay thank
you
question
comments
motion when you came in again you were
given a packet of ballots this is the
one that is set official ballot number
two yes or
[Music]
no so w is pass to me and discuss the
ordinance that's in front of us
everybody should have been able to pick
this up the door it's a it's a town
ofand over dog Waste Control
Ordinance B of selectman has been
getting complaints
of residents and non-residents allowing
their dogs on the field the Veterans
Memorial Field down on Long Hill and um
a significant amount of waste being left
on the field so previously we have
passed an ordinance that allows the town
to
establish um fines for items like this
and what we're attempting to do is to
sit there and identify fi uh locations
within town that we would like uh the
the pet owners to clean up their uh
their waste and dispose of it so that is
the ordinance if anyone wants to have
any questions related to the ordinance
feel
free how are you going to uh enforce
this
my we actually have a new system in
place where we uh what
call this is Town attorney Dennis
O'Brien uh he's going to sit there and
explain to you the specifics as to how
we would go through and implement this
now listen the implementation of
identifying who is there and intentially
ticketing them is is a an issue but what
our attempt to do is to allow everyone
to know that there is a potential for a
fine if you you you have bad behavior
will we always enforce the fine that's a
different question how we do it I'm
going to let the attorney explain
okay I thought I'd never get a chance to
speak thank you chff anyway I'm Dennis
O'Brien the town attorney and I was
asked to put together an ordinance for
this particular problem about dogs going
on playing fields and um you know doing
their business and uh making problems we
have that same problem where I work in
Little League in will man could have
this all the time and this is you know
somewhat of a deterrent this is meant to
have a a deterrent effect just like in
will manic I I always tell our police
chief that you know you guys are more of
a deterrent than anything else and they
are and it works okay so this under this
ordinance um I think they uh there was a
prior ordinance it didn't carry a fund
and uh it didn't have any
so what I tried to do is put teeth into
this thing and um I made it so that uh
any anybody that uh violated it could be
fined and if they were fined they'd have
to pay the fine and although they'd have
a chance to uh uh appeal to find to our
new system of um we we have a hearing
officer system now citation sign uh a
citations hearing officer it's only been
used once in a blight case and it worked
out really really well uh Mr rizley is
the hearing officer he's very very good
and I'm sure that he can handle any case
under this uh this rule but the uh the
ordinance was written with it in mind
that uh we needed something that would U
be uh enforceable and the only way to do
that would be to to impose a fine state
law allows you to find but you if you do
find you have to give notice in advance
to the person that they may be fined
that they violated I chose rather than
to have a town employee running around
chasing people all over town giving them
notice hey if you do this again you're
going to be fine I I chose to to go with
uh putting signs up around the fields
where the where the where you want to
keep the dogs off in instead and I I
thought that would be adequate notice
under the law my opinion so um you know
again if somebody's if somebody I guess
uh dog soils the uh fields and it's not
picked up and put in the proper
receptacle that's $100 fine uh just for
be just for the dog being on the field
is a $50 fine okay those fines could be
higher but I know you know I know I've
been around long enough to know that if
it made the fine higher it probably
wouldn't pass town meeting I don't know
whether it'll pass anyway but I hope it
does and I hope if it does I hope works
and I hope it does help to keep your
beautiful athletic fields and school
Fields uh clean of dog waste and I I
have to say uh to be
honest all right I'm
done any questions any
questions yes oh oh
he's all right back in the
room so I understand Field playing field
but at Long Hill there is the walking
Track This is saying all Town owned
properties does that mean I can not walk
my dog with me on that walking Track
around Long
Hill are you going to clean up after
your dog yes I'm a responsible pedo then
then no one is going to bother you thank
you but it does say it it it it does say
that would have to be judicial overreach
and I don't think you're going to find
anyone on this board that wants to do
that why does why say
that i' like to
see property is Town property take it
out now certainly all of us all of us
with dogs walk with our little bads and
do take care of that stuff but to ban
dogs from property with the plane field
just to let our dogs run on occasion if
we're not responsible picking up the
appication if they do that is serious
overreach and I I think it's Dennis as
usual you're an overreach than a guy
then I really
really can I can I read I'll read it
just so everybody can understand it it
says public property the plain field
area of any recreational field plain
Field School grounds or playgrounds bone
leased or maintained by the town of IND
so so to go back to your question in the
back that would not be considered the
plane
field well that's why I said that's okay
plane field but it says all
Town yeah it says it says plain field
area but it's around I know but playing
field area is where you're going to have
a soccer game let's say in that that
area so inside the track if you want to
be specific 10 ft on the inside of the
TR I mean come on listen this is not us
trying to sit there and create something
that we don't want I have a dog as well
I hope my dog goes in the woods Mr
Denley used to have a Woods next to his
house no longer there it's a beautiful
house that pays a lot of property taxes
and I'm very happy it's there but I
remember one time he wrote an editorial
about his dog not being able to go into
that nice area to do its business this
is all this is about this is attempt by
a board to sit there and try to remove
waste from a plane any public
property I told you to not have a fine
or signs about not having your dog there
just
about clean
up the $100 fine is fine but make it
about clean up and not about the dog
presence made a
motion yeah I like that idea cleaning up
your dog not
about everybody shout at once please
second Scott okay Scott you made a
motion to amend this is there a second
second Adrien mandaville second thank
you discussion on the
amendment great idea great idea can
Julia well I think you need signage
number one because if you're not telling
people that an ordinance was applying to
this public property whether it's a
field or a
playground it's there they deserve a
sign and I would think you did you
mention putting a receptacle for the
bags there no okay well that's something
they could handle themselves by taking
it along with them when they leave the
Lan Fields you don't want them stacking
up on the edge of the river or you know
so kind of things that might
happen um just to clarify just so I
Scott your your motion Adrian you it
says um no dogs allowed on public
property you want that moved correct and
you want the $50 fine related to dogs on
the public property REM correct okay I
don't have a problems let's go further
comment think that's a reasonable
reasonable
request comment yes
ma'
question
knowy the
off we don't have we don't have police
in the town of Andover we we only have
individuals anyone could sit there and
make a a notice of citizens arrest you
can you can contact the Town
Administrator and the Town Administrator
may go down to the to the recreational
field and and and stake them out is
really the only way we're going to do it
we're we're just trying to sit there and
put in an opportunity for us to control
a problem that has been brought to our
attention
let's do
lat we vote on we're voting with the
amendment okay cross out we're crossing
out this whole section and we're taking
out the $50 F okay we're leaving the
$100 fine in right $100 fine stays in
for not picking up not
up that was your motion St
no more
50 you're good work with them excellent
let's go okay more questions ballot
number three I'm
sorry I feel back my but after every
game that place is
there's clothes there's trash there's
food if we're going to make an EV
something about dogs we need to be after
the people who are down there before
making a mess I no longer want my dogs
down there because of the lior bottle
because of the track that is the
problem so Gage is not just dog species
it's people being slopped down there to
and I think that needs to be addressed
as much as the dogs I've seen a lot of
people f
can we add an amendment to this to say
to make
the littering as
well understood and we will sit there
and take that up in a different times
but but you're not long but you got to
remember there's there's very there's
less frequent events down there right
now
all right thank
you we must right no do we don't don't
no because the organizations that were
using it were required to bring their
own
TR they were supposed to handle it so
yeah I know I got you
here anyway this is related to one
specific
item it's and it is it is amended as you
sit there and see so you're voting on
you amended item of Crossing out
sections of no dogs on public property
and removal of the $50
fund you want me to vote
for okay
sorry garbage
kids um wait a second the town attorney
tells me I need to make a motion no you
need to votee on the amendment yeah on
the amendment okay so all those in favor
of the amendment I okay great
oppos okay you have the call L
please back to the original ballot as
amended question
number3 and we'll pick the ballots up
count I I don't have a of the wording of
this
oh
sorry bro
no you
can't thankk
thank
you everyone voted EX
all right if you don't
mind we will move on to the next item
and we'll let you know the outcome once
we get
County what next update for placei the
current tax abatement program the
endover volunteer fire department
coordinance what PID for 73 yes to
no oh on what that was on the payment
for the
squad
73 to call on Chief you'd like to come
up here please and speak to the
ordinance changes
we can be out of here in five minutes if
you guys want to make it quick okay do
it so the the tax am mement basically is
in place right now for the members of
the fire department based on years of
service and certifications they had
state of Connecticut couple years back
allowed it to go up to $2,000 for a
maximum which is based on 10 of service
and certifications there again being a
fire figer one
EMT um we started what about 20 years
ago near in endover and uh at that
time it was
um the the top amount was $11,000 for 10
plus years of service so you had to be
in the department for 10 years to get
$1,000 tax payment and when we put it in
play it's based on percentage of calls
that you make a year so members have to
make 15% of calls they don't just get it
automatically they have to get up get
out of bed go to fire calls go to
annuals calls do all the necessary stuff
to make the ABAB um so it's not L like
come down fill out an application we
vote you in tomorrow and you'll get a
$1,000 in bement you know you got to
work for it the certifications the EMT
is up to 200
hours uh firefighter 1 is 180 now I
believe right so I mean did these people
have to work to get certified to get
that money and they also have to get out
of bed and come to calls and serve the
community um we're asking to double it
up to what the state allows as a
recruitment thing the wants applications
I'll get you one tonight and also as a
retention aspect of it because the
people that are doing it now have been
doing it for a long time and it's kind
of a thank you to them to say hey we're
going to get you a little bit more money
for what you're
doing um that's kind of in the nutshell
I know questions we have anything in
place I know some other Town doing also
pay for call we have well we we have a
cost recovery system that's through the
fire commission's budget and it's based
on number of calls and how many calls
you make and it averages out I'll tell
you for myself it averages out to like
$600 every 6 months based on the number
of calls I make if I don't make as many
calls it's less money we're not really
doing anything special this time don't
bring right right it's it's it's well I
mean it's you're doubling what the
members are meeting now if you approve
this which is like I said it's it's more
or less a thank you for your job and
please keep doing it as a retention
aspect of keeping the people we have
that we have
now hopefully it'll help the recruitment
when the word gets out that we do this
but you know like I said it takes a lot
of time effort to get certified and do
this training to try to bring new people
in off the street want that are doing it
now they need to stay this is why I want
to try to keep from here is this going
to include the person that doesn't live
in the
town going to be able to get the
abatement so all right here's the
miscommunication that was in the
chronicle also in the chronicle said
that there was a person that doesn't
live in town and gets it now that person
is me I live in Columbia I served the
fire department for 42 years and since
this has been in play I have to qualify
I mean I qualify but I don't get because
so you're still not getting it so I'm
still not getting it today to be honest
with you I don't really care if I get it
or not that's not why I do the job to
what's that town I I made one of these
days anyways who knows so move back to
town I started in town that's why I've
stayed in town um so with the change
that would come in this yes I would
qualify for it um and we have currently
we have three other members that are all
or two two members that are junior
members that live in Hein CU for a while
Hein wasn't taking any 16-year-old
members we work so and you know we're
like we'll take whatever help we can get
and the only way they would qualify for
this is if they have a motor vehicle
registered in their name because they
don't have a property tax in the town of
Andel and they would qualify if they
have a vehicle registered that's it so
if they have a junker car that's worth
you know $200 in taxes and say they
qualify for five they only get $200 they
get for Jun Rec car taxes PID for um so
it's not like it's going to cost a lot
more money the average per year um and
if you got the the informational stuff
that was sent out there over the last
couple years got the's put it all
together pretty
good um you know just going back to 20
2018 it's never been over $20,000 a year
so I mean you're talking it say 20,000
which this year was um just just about
18,000 so you're talking
18,36 sounds like a che you know like I
said it's a thank you to the membership
for what they do the ones that are there
currently and hopefully it gets us some
new people interested in saying hey
maybe I'll go join the fire department
and you know Jeff said he was putting an
application in
tomorrow I need the tax credit valid the
word
what is that the old find the old
one get the old right the old one that
was written up years ago and put this
new one in place so
so you put a fulltime fire and
everything you're probably talk 50
60,000 a year and one firefighter
doesn't do the job you need to have at
least two or three of so how volunteer
firefighters do we have in the town of
and right now there's currently about 32
on the roster 32 right but not every one
of those qualifies for this that's
that's the important thing is that it's
the people that put in the time the
effort that qualify and and they may
qualify this year and not qualify next
year due to work complications family
complications health issues so it it
that's why it changes every year one
year it could be 18 next year it could
be 20,000 if everybody's Super Active
and they show up so was that 32
firefighters plus their's EMS workers no
that's all together we're all one big
group firemen EMTs is all one group so I
guess my question was how many
firefighters do we have how many EMTs do
we have um you'd have to ask that um
firefighters I'm going to just spit all
the ballparks because I don't have them
in front of me without my list to look
at probably
about um 10 or 12 that are firefighters
certified and the EMTs Mindy how
many how many certified EMTs we have
right
now AC
or roster on I
certified maybe 16 of them and some of
them are firefighter and emgs so they're
certified in both aspects of it okay so
okay thank you would this happen to
extend to the families if something God
forbid happen the
fire um no it never has in the past
either for the past 20 some OD years um
it's it's strictly for the act of
firefighters
right any other
questions all
right you need to have a motion
made motion call
need a motion to vote on make a motion
to vote on the
fire you're making a motion that the
town adop the Ed up I'll
second
good okay so the question is in call
your final ballot of the night number
four when you've all been waiting for
please mark yes and no and we'll pick up
the
oh I did not announce the numbers for uh
the animal
control the amended
ordinance the numbers are yes 62 no 13
so that pass on the ordinance update
Place nullify the tax of big program for
the Handover volunteer fire department
ordinance 73 yes one
no someone will make a motion to a Jour
motion to a
joury there a
second second all in
favor the meeting is adjourned thank you
so the final votes for tonight's
activities I'm going to wrap up for the
evening since I missed the first one um
the solar energy project with amendments
passed 53 yes 24
no the fire truck funding was 73 yes 2
no the doc waste ordinance also with
amendments was 62 yes 13 no and the uh
adjustment to the abatement for Andover
volunteer fire department was 73 yes and
one no